# Homework 5 - Reflection

## Design
**1. What was most helpful about thinking about design methods of your project?**  
The use cases were the most helpful for thinking about design methods for this bot because they helped us to articulate the different features we wanted the bot to have and the full process of user interaction. The alternative flows helped us think of edge cases early on in the process, which was very helpful. Writing the use cases made us think of the sequence of events that each feature would need to execute in order to meet our expectations for its functionality. To that end, the sequence diagram was also very helpful for articulating this event sequence.

**2. What was most difficult? What would you do differently?**  
The architecture design was the most difficult part of designing this project, as we had to choose early on whether we were going to use a Slackbot with granular scopes using the Events API or a classic Slackbot using the Slackbots.js node module. We chose the classic Slackbot since we were able to get it up and running more easily and it appeared that the Slackbots node module would provide many useful functions. However, we ran into some issues with not being able to fetch information we needed to implement the more complicated functionality that we initially had in mind. Even though we did do a lot of research initially, in hindsight, we probably should have tried to get the Events API working. After we had implemented a significant amount of functionality using the Slackbots node modules, we discovered the [Bolt](https://api.slack.com/tutorials/hello-world-bolt) framework, but it appears to be implemented with Glitch, a web-based IDE that would not be conducive to working with GitHub. We are still unsure how we would get the bot code linked with the Events API. In hindsight, we should have tried to find someone who has personal experience implementing Slack bots who might have been able to advise us on this issue early on.

**3. What design methods might you want to try again in the future on another project?**  
In future projects, I will certainly incorporate use cases and sequence flow diagrams, though I found storyboarding to be a bit unnecessary. Storyboarding is useful for presenting the idea to non-developers, but the use cases and project description should be sufficient to explain the necessary functionality to developers. Architecture design is a crucial step in determining how the project will be implemented, and it is interesting to document how this changes over time with design pivots when necessary. 

## Implementation
**1. What was most helpful about implementing, testing, and integration in your bot project?**  
[This video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nyyXTIL3Hkw) was very helpful for getting the bot up and running initally and was a great place to start for implementing our project. Console logging all message data received by the bot code was one of the most useful testing methods we had, and we were able to parse this data to be used in the methods we created to implement the bot functionality.

**2. What was most difficult? What would you do differently?** 
Figuring out where to start was very difficult since making a bot was a completely unfamiliar area for us. We initially attempted to get the bot working with the Events API, but when it didn't seem to be working we switched gears to using the Slackbots node module, which ended up not having the functionality we wanted. I think if we could do it differently, we would have given the Events API more time before giving up on it, or attempted both implementation options in parallel to see which seemed to be working out better. Alternatively, it seems that creating a Discord bot might have been a better option that we did not explore since we were very excited to create a bot for Slack, a platform that we use often.

**3. What implementation, testing, and integration methods might you want to try again in the future on another project?**  
In future projects, I will definitely continue to use VS Code as my IDE (I honestly have no idea how I managed before using VS Code). Extensive online research and making use of the internet to solve problems or learn more about unfamiliar topics is also something that I will continue with future projects. Additionally, I will continue to use node modules that provide functionality and save time, as well as using environment variables to protect sensitive information such as tokens and API keys.

## Process
**1. What was most helpful about implementing kanban and code review in your project?**  
Implementing kanban was very helpful because it gave us a good idea of where we were throughout the project for each task, and assigning these tasks to different people gave us a good idea of how we intended to break down the work. Code review through pull requests was very useful (along with using branches for features) because it avoided committing to the master branch and causing conflicts, and it encourages looking at the contents of the commits rather than just pulling them.

**2. What was most difficult? What would you do differently?**  
The most difficult part of the process was the learning curve for implementing kanban, creating issues, using branches for new features, and creating pull requests since these were completely new concepts. However, these are certainly things that were extremely important to learn and I would not change anything about using them in this project.

**3. What software processes or practices might you want to try again in the future on another project?**  
I will definitely continue to use VS Code in future projects because having a terminal integrated with the IDE, GitHub integration, and Live Share for collaborative coding were all crucial features for implementing this bot and making the project run smoothly. Additionally, I will continue to use kanban, issues, branches, and pull requests in future projects. Using the wiki to document meetings is also something we found useful that I would like to continue.

## Overall
**Considering all the design methods, implementation practices, and software processes you've encountered---compare and contrast how the benefits of the different practices and how they might be useful together.**  
The design methods of creating use cases, sequence diagrams, and conducting significant research for the architecture design before beginning to code were very useful to us, and I believe that this project has taught me how important it is to do significant research before starting to code rather than just jumping straight in.

Overall, I think this project has taught me numerous skills that I will continue to use in future projects, such as getting comfortable with writing in Markdown, creating and assigning issues, using the kanban board, using branching for new features, making pull requests, using modules and running code in Node.js, and using environment variables to protect tokens and other sensitive information. Every single one of these skills is something that I had absolutely no experience with before this project, and now I am comfortable with all of them and will most certainly bring these practices into any projects I am a part of in the future. Additionally, all of the integrated functionality for VS Code, such as the terminal, GitHub, and Live Share, was crucial for the success of this project. Using VS Code Live Share while being on a video call was the method we used most often for collaborative coding, and we found that it was very effective.

Doing more documentation than is usually done for this type of project helped us to articulate our thoughts regarding design and implementation, which improved communication between the team members and with the professor and TA about what our project will do. Before this project, I did not quite realize the importance of documentation for long-term coding projects. However, we found it very useful to use Markdown files for more formal and important documents, like the [DESIGN.md](DESIGN.md), [PROCESS.md](PROCESS.md), and our final report, and the [wiki](https://github.com/Angelina-Zaccaria/ButterflyBot/wiki) for the less formal meeting notes to keep track of decisions we have made and things we need to do.